Darren Pulsipher: Good afternoon, good evening. How's everyone doing today?
Tricia Brown: Hello, how are you?
Eric Farber-Eger: O?
Martina Nikic: Good, how are you?
Darren Pulsipher: I see some old, familiar faces!
Darren Pulsipher: And some new ones!
Darren Pulsipher: I do like to see people's faces, just so you guys know. We'll do cameras on on these sessions on Thursdays.
Darren Pulsipher: Which we'll go over a little bit today.
Darren Pulsipher: We'll give a couple more minutes, because I do believe there's 8… 8 to 10 people.
Darren Pulsipher: Scheduled.
Darren Pulsipher: Let me double check real quick.
Darren Pulsipher: Alright.
Darren Pulsipher: More people are joining. All right, well, then, come on.
Darren Pulsipher: Philip, I recognize.
Darren Pulsipher: How was everyone's Christmas, and New Year's break.
Darren Pulsipher: Hopefully people got some time off.
Eric Farber-Eger: Oh yeah, it was good. Lots of chasing the kids around.
Darren Pulsipher: That's always fun.
Darren Pulsipher: I spend my time chasing my kids out. They are gone.
Darren Pulsipher: My wife and I are finally empty nesters, so it's kind of nice.
Darren Pulsipher: So, let's see, I just logged in, let's see…
Darren Pulsipher: how many other people we have. Well, you guys obviously were able to see the bright,
Darren Pulsipher: Was it called Brightspace?
Darren Pulsipher: Alright.
Darren Pulsipher: Let's see… To nail… Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: We should, we're expecting a couple more people, and then we'll get kicked off.
Darren Pulsipher: Wait, Tom has joined twice. Okay. That helps.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Yeah, that's…
Darren Pulsipher: Thank God.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): just adds to the count. But the, yeah, sorry, I just… I have my cell phone on one, and one of the, the big screen on the other.
Darren Pulsipher: No, no problem.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): But the cell phone for the video.
Darren Pulsipher: Well, we'll go ahead and get started, now that we're a couple minutes after. Let me introduce myself real quick. I'm Dr. Darren Pulsifer.
Darren Pulsipher: You can just call me, Darren or Dr. Darren. No one can ever get my name right all the time.
Darren Pulsipher: On my last name.
Darren Pulsipher: I've been teaching for… at Vanderbilt for over a year now. I taught this class before.
Darren Pulsipher: But I completely revamped it.
Darren Pulsipher: because of, a philosophy that I'm kind of taking
Darren Pulsipher: And we had quite a bit of success with, with some adjustments, which,
Darren Pulsipher: the people that had my class last semester, you're gonna see some of the adjustments this semester to make, to make things better. And I think one of the reasons why we… I've changed things so, so much is because of, technology changes in the world around generative AI, specifically.
Darren Pulsipher: And my goal that I have for you guys is that
Darren Pulsipher: First off, when you're done with this, that you can get jobs, because that's important.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? Because I know, I've, I've got, 10 kids.
Darren Pulsipher: So I know what it means to support family and to support yourselves.
Darren Pulsipher: And with the… with everything that's going on, especially around computer science and…
Darren Pulsipher: and software engineering, I think it's important that we up our game. So you're going to find in this class, we're going to up our game quite a bit, and start thinking at a much higher level.
Darren Pulsipher: then I'm not going to be concerned about code as much as I am design patterns in architecture, and making sure that you guys make architectural decisions that are wise, instead of just being able to regurgitate an API from a language.
Darren Pulsipher: And the reason I think the big shift is because I can have generative AI do that for me all day long.
Darren Pulsipher: That's… that's what they're good at, is regurgitation.
Darren Pulsipher: So I'm gonna try and up… up your game, basically.
Darren Pulsipher: This course is microservice… scalable microservice architectures, and we're going to add some resilience and security in there as well.
Darren Pulsipher: In the past, this class has been taught by some incredible, incredible computer scientists that have written books and published papers and contributed to the Java Spring Framework.
Darren Pulsipher: We're not covering JavaSpring this time. If you want to, you can.
Darren Pulsipher: Instead, we're going to talk about the design patterns and architectural decisions. It will be a multi-language course. We'll be working in
Darren Pulsipher: whatever languages you want, frankly, as long as it can, handle the design patterns. There will be some.
Darren Pulsipher: what's the right word? There will be some, wise ways to choose things. In my last class, we had a student that decided to make his life so much harder than it had to be, and those that are in the class know exactly who I'm talking about.
Darren Pulsipher: He learned a lot. He learned an awful lot.
Darren Pulsipher: But he made his job a lot harder, so I suggest…
Darren Pulsipher: looking at best practices and guidance in the lectures, they will help you make wise decisions in what you decide to do. This may be uncomfortable for some of you guys, because you're going to be used… some of your courses that you've had in the past
Darren Pulsipher: You're used to code already written for you, and frameworks already set up for you, and test cases you need to pass. You're not getting any of that from me.
Darren Pulsipher: None.
Darren Pulsipher: It… because that… in fact, I took the course… I took this exact course.
Darren Pulsipher: Over the summer, and I took the final assignment, and I pumped it into Juni, which is a, a Gen AI on steroids with IntelliJ, and it finished the whole course.
Darren Pulsipher: All the assignments in 10 minutes.
Darren Pulsipher: pass 100%.
Darren Pulsipher: And I said, you know what?
Darren Pulsipher: I'm not gonna… I'm not gonna do that to you guys, because I think, that would be… if I… if I just gave you the same assignment, that would be a detriment to you.
Darren Pulsipher: And… I just don't think that's worth your time and your effort.
Darren Pulsipher: To be able to regurgitate what a Gen AI can do for you. So we're going to focus a lot on architectural decisions in Gen AI, and you'll see that in the courses. And Eric and Tricia and Philip have had my course, not this course, but
Darren Pulsipher: Last semester, so they know, kind of, the approach that I'm gonna take.
Darren Pulsipher: So, any questions on that, so far, from you guys?
Darren Pulsipher: Nope.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay, I… I do… I do have a slide presentation I will show. Oh, actually… I normally… Oh, go ahead, Philip.
Philip Eykamp: Actually, I do have a question, perhaps slightly in jest, but not totally.
Philip Eykamp: I would love to hear again, because I think you discussed this last term, how you would differentiate between what you're teaching us and vibe coding, just because that term has become a scourge on our industry.
Darren Pulsipher: Yeah, so I'm gonna teach you… I'm gonna teach you how to direct a Gen AI to help you make wise architecture decisions. The code?
Darren Pulsipher: is secondary.
Darren Pulsipher: And one of the reasons why I say that is I truly believe
Darren Pulsipher: That in the next 5 years, maybe? Maybe less than that.
Darren Pulsipher: there, that GenAI will start, generating machine code directly.
Darren Pulsipher: Or a different kind of code that's not human readable.
Darren Pulsipher: But that is machine readable, that can go to machine code.
Darren Pulsipher: And talk at the… at the microcode level.
Darren Pulsipher: I, I truly believe that, that could, that could happen.
Darren Pulsipher: So… No, no problem, you go by Tom or Thomas?
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Sorry, mute button. I go by Tom.
Darren Pulsipher: All right, so Tom, I'll dive right in, so you know what's on track, and then we can have a discussion after that, because I don't want you to miss, kind of the meat of what we have planned today. So let me share my screen here. Does that answer your question, Philip?
Philip Eykamp: Yes, thank you.
Darren Pulsipher: All right.
Darren Pulsipher: Philip will always, challenge me, which is exactly what I want to hear.
Darren Pulsipher: So… Alright,
Darren Pulsipher: So, we'll talk about course philosophy, the course contents, the structure of the lecture material, which you guys will get used to, and then the assignments, and we'll talk about grading, and how to set up your dev environment, and all that.
Darren Pulsipher: Course philosophy. This one is really important.
Darren Pulsipher: I don't see you guys as coders. I see you as not even software developers. I see you more as software
Darren Pulsipher: engineers and architects, and I'm going to treat you as such. You guys are all master's students.
Darren Pulsipher: So, we're gonna think at a lot, higher level than, just script monkeys, right? If you want to learn a language, you're free to do that on your own time.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? Let's just put it that way.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay? And you will be learning a lot of new techniques, and maybe even a new language during this course. We are going to learn how to write concurrent and massively parallel microservice architectures.
Darren Pulsipher: It will require, I am gonna… I am gonna have you guys using Docker, which we'll talk about, but you do not need a cloud environment.
Darren Pulsipher: to do this. You can run all this stuff on your desktops or laptops. If you want to run it in a cloud and go hogwell crazy, you're more than welcome to do that as well, because we're going to focus on the different design patterns and architectures throughout this course.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: One of the reasons why
Darren Pulsipher: And this is really easy. Just so you guys know, I work at Intel Corporation. That's my full-time job. This I'm doing because…
Darren Pulsipher: I enjoy teaching. And one thing I want to get across to you guys is, even though we're in a part of, technology right now that's moving so rapidly.
Darren Pulsipher: We've seen these before, and there have been several times that… and I don't know if you guys know Moore's Law.
Darren Pulsipher: But Moore's Law basically says that every two years, the number of transistors doubles in the same amount of space. That's Moore's Law.
Darren Pulsipher: the ramifications of Moore's Law, says that speed doubles every two years, which…
Darren Pulsipher: in the long term has really happened. We've been told several times by industry leaders,
Darren Pulsipher: that, Moore's Law is dead.
Darren Pulsipher: And anytime someone says that, there's a major breakthrough. And one, and the reason I bring this up is because this shows you how rapidly things are growing.
Darren Pulsipher: And because they're growing so rapidly, we, as software architects and software engineers, need to understand, that kind of growth so that we can architect systems that can last beyond a year and a half or two years.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? So, understanding that technology is going to advance even beyond, some of our architectures, or some of our coding that we've done, our architectures still need to be sound and solid moving forward.
Darren Pulsipher: Some of the best examples of that, there is an organization
Darren Pulsipher: there… there's an organization out there, called… oh, let's see if I get it right… DCMA?
Darren Pulsipher: They are in charge of all the defense contracts for the United States Department of War.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? All of them.
Darren Pulsipher: The software is the oldest piece of software running in the world today. It's written in COBOL,
Darren Pulsipher: And it is running on a mainframe.
Darren Pulsipher: And it is almost 60 years old.
Darren Pulsipher: So that architecture has…
Darren Pulsipher: withstood all this change. They've tried several times to, to migrate it off of the mainframe onto something more modern.
Darren Pulsipher: And this is where things fell apart, because the core foundation of that architecture is solid, but they built a spaghetti mess around it, and they can't move it without destroying everything.
Darren Pulsipher: So, we want to make sure that we're architecting things that can be extended easily, but also migrated as well. So we're going to work on those types of architectures.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay? That's why I bring up Moore's Law.
Darren Pulsipher: Let's go to the next slide here.
Darren Pulsipher: Oh, and I forgot to hit the record button. No, it's already recording, right?
Darren Pulsipher: I think I already set it up.
Eric Farber-Eger: Yeah, it says recording on my side.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay, thank you, thank you. One thing I want to make sure that… that we, look at in…
Darren Pulsipher: in this course, is we're going to be doing a lot of things, but we're also going to be discussing a lot of things, because I see there's a lot of real value in our Thursday calls as these not being just Darren lecturing.
Darren Pulsipher: But us discussing.
Darren Pulsipher: And, one change that we're going to make this semester over last semester
Darren Pulsipher: you'll see coming up when I get to that slide. I don't want to jump ahead too much. But I really want you guys to not worry about the coding as much.
Darren Pulsipher: as… Your architecture and your design, and that you're using
Darren Pulsipher: Best practices, best methods that are known out there, and maybe even creating some of your own.
Darren Pulsipher: So, I'm trying to up your game, in that, which I've already kind of talked about.
Darren Pulsipher: Oh, Thursday class time. So, a little bit of a change from last semester.
Darren Pulsipher: every class that you attend, and you have your camera on, and you're engaged, you're gonna get 1%, you'll get one point for the class. There are 14 classes. You have an opportunity to get 14%.
Darren Pulsipher: So, there's extra credit by attending class and participating. If you miss a class, this gives you an opportunity to miss 4 classes.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? With no penalties.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? That's something that's… that's new. But, you need to open your mouth. It's not me talking the whole time.
Darren Pulsipher: I will literally sit here and stare at you guys.
Darren Pulsipher: Until you say something.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? The reason why is because I expect you guys to come prepared to talk in class. There are lectures that are out in GitHub.
Darren Pulsipher: That you can read. There will be videos and audio, that you can listen to, and I expect you guys to even, crack open your chat GPT or Claude, or whatever LLM you want.
Darren Pulsipher: or do a Google search, I don't care, but come to class ready to discuss
Darren Pulsipher: what the lectures covered, and the concepts around them, and even bring some world world experience into those. So the class schedule will be, at the first 15 minutes, I'll do a short lecture on one of the topics, for the week.
Darren Pulsipher: And then there's an hour of us discussing. And I won't just have it us discussing the whole time. I'll have a couple activities that are breakout sessions, some question and answer type things, and and… but I really want you guys to bring something to the table.
Darren Pulsipher: Where we're learning, all of us are learning together, not just…
Darren Pulsipher: me regurgitating a bunch of slides, because that's… that's not fun for anyone.
Darren Pulsipher: I'm including myself.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay? Any questions about that? Does that make sense?
Darren Pulsipher: Alright, we're good, alright.
Darren Pulsipher: What we're gonna cover, we're gonna cover modern web, programming platforms.
Darren Pulsipher: We're going to cover patterns for concurrency and parallel programming in microservice architectures. We're going to cover some of the development tools that are out there that help you with this. I will cover some Java Spring. It's an incredible platform if you like working in the Java environment.
Darren Pulsipher: But I will also cover Node.js, Go, and Rust as well, and some of their platforms, and the benefits of using them.
Darren Pulsipher: We will also cover some generative AI techniques, and how to get the Gen AI to… and coerce the Gen AI to give you better responses, and to interact with it in a very productive way.
Darren Pulsipher: Some people in the past have had some hard times with GenAI, and have trusted implicitly, and it's led them down the wrong path.
Darren Pulsipher: So, we're going to teach a lot about how to build up your knowledge so that you can actually ask generative AI important questions, and that you can be critical in thinking on how those, responses are coming back.
Darren Pulsipher: That's gonna be, important.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay?
Darren Pulsipher: Some of the key frameworks that we're going to be using, we're going to talk about streams, we're going to talk about reactive streams, and structured concurrency. Those are kind of the three big, design pattern, groups that we're going to talk about in this course.
Darren Pulsipher: You will be able to architect things that can handle millions of messages.
Darren Pulsipher: And in an effective way. And I'm talking millions of messages in minutes, not in, hours. So we're going to talk about some of those different architectural design patterns that can handle that, and how to scale
Darren Pulsipher: Up and scaled down appropriately.
Darren Pulsipher: One of the… one of the big modern web platforms out there is Spring Boot. I will go over how it's architected and what the corollaries are in, some other languages.
Darren Pulsipher: But key, platforms that we'll talk about is synchronous programming and asynchronous programming.
Darren Pulsipher: And the different, types of,
Darren Pulsipher: design patterns we're going to see in them, and also the benefits and the drawbacks to each one. That's going to be very important when it comes to you designing and architecting your solution.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? Based off of, you know, the project that you're going to work on.
Darren Pulsipher: In the past, we picked one project.
Darren Pulsipher: I'm gonna be more nice than that. I'm going to give you the option between 5 different projects that you get to choose. I'm not gonna be as bold as last class, where you got to do whatever you felt like. This one, I even… I even have some starter data sets for you guys, which will help out quite a bit.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? Some of the pattern, or some of the reasons why we want to use patterns.
Darren Pulsipher: And we'll talk about how they interact with each other, is reusability. We know these work, why not use them? Maintainability, these patterns are well known and, easy to maintain.
Darren Pulsipher: Scalability, flexibility, and then, of course, best practices. Doug Schmidt, who taught this class before I started teaching it, has written a great book on design patterns. You can check out that PDF that's… that's right there. I will send these slides out, they will be put up on Brightspace as well, so you guys can get access to that.
Darren Pulsipher: Doug's a brilliant, software engineer, so, I… I feel kind of,
Darren Pulsipher: Humbled to take over his class like this, because he left me with a lot of great stuff.
Darren Pulsipher: So…
Darren Pulsipher: The development environment will be using Git. You will hand your assignments into GitHub or GitLab, I don't care which one. I'll walk through how you submit assignments.
Darren Pulsipher: I use IntelliJ, so you'll see a lot of the examples coming from IntelliJ, but you can use any of the IDEs out there, just make sure that the IDE has some kind of code assistant.
Darren Pulsipher: in it that can read the repo that you're currently in. This will help you, because what happens is the code assistants are really a generative AI. They're a large language model that, use your repo as a mini-Rag.
Darren Pulsipher: Which is retrieval augmented generation. So when you are working through problems or coming up with your design and architecture, it will pull on the repo which has all the lectures and all the notes to the lectures in there. So it'll make your lives a lot easier, I'm hoping.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? That's kind of the idea behind it.
Darren Pulsipher: Any questions on that so far?
Darren Pulsipher: Nope? Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: Generative AI. Now, this is a big, this is a big thing for me. I actually, actually teach, workshops on generative AI for executives, and also for, common people, and for, also professors.
Darren Pulsipher: I've taught at universities, these, one-day workshops on generative AI, so I will be weaving some of that stuff that I teach in that workshop into the lectures and into our discussions on Thursday. Some of the things that I've learned
Darren Pulsipher: From working with, lots of organizations and lots of different techniques that are out there.
Darren Pulsipher: One thing I want you guys all to realize, you cannot trust Gen AI completely.
Darren Pulsipher: And depending on which one you use, you can trust it even less. One of the reasons why is the algorithms are set up
Darren Pulsipher: Specifically the public gen AIs.
Darren Pulsipher: Are set up to give you an answer.
Darren Pulsipher: Regardless of whether it knows the answer or not, it will give you an answer. So, it will make things up.
Darren Pulsipher: And if any of you have any kids, especially, like, 5-year-olds.
Darren Pulsipher: and 4-year-olds, you know that's what they do, too. If they don't know something.
Darren Pulsipher: They will make up an answer because they want to please you.
Darren Pulsipher: And that's about where we're at with GenAI. It will rarely tell you you're wrong.
Darren Pulsipher: It will rarely give an opinion unless you ask for it.
Darren Pulsipher: So, we're gonna work through some different prompting techniques, to help us pull out of the Gen AI more information than we would normally get out of it, to help us make, design decisions and architectural decisions, and then to help us generate code.
Darren Pulsipher: Effectively, right? That's one of the big differences between Bibcoding and what we're gonna be, working with, Philip.
Darren Pulsipher: So, I hope that… that helps.
Darren Pulsipher: Like I mentioned earlier, all of the lectures, even the transcript of today's, call, I will be putting into, which is different than last semester, I'll be putting into the repo
Darren Pulsipher: So, you'll be getting the text-based transcripts of all this stuff. This will… this will help if you have questions on, hey, what went wrong in class last week?
Darren Pulsipher: you'll have all that access to all that raw data, and the LLM can find that information.
Darren Pulsipher: I do have a podcast, if you want to learn more about my philosophy around… around this sort of stuff.
Darren Pulsipher: check out my podcast. That link is right there. I do believe that link still works. If not, let me know, and I'll get you a new link. I just revamped the website. And that might give you some insight into my philosophy around this stuff.
Darren Pulsipher: And my philosophy changes, so I'll just be honest with you. As I learn more things, I, you know, I'm up for making changes.
Darren Pulsipher: Right.
Darren Pulsipher: The, oh…
Darren Pulsipher: I should remove the word Java out of here. The course is really broken into three major sections.
Darren Pulsipher: Structured concurrency and reactive systems.
Darren Pulsipher: Synchronous and asynchronous web communications, and then software designing patterns.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? And you'll see that throughout the course, and you'll see it in the assignments as well.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: Please make sure that you review the modules, before class, because we're going to discuss them in class. I'm not just going to lecture.
Darren Pulsipher: Right, so I expect you guys to come in ready to ask questions and to debate things together, and to come up with great solutions together as a group.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: Let's see, we went over some of this stuff…
Darren Pulsipher: assessment philosophy. Here's another thing that might be new to some of you. There will not be written tests.
Darren Pulsipher: In this class. There will be oral tests in this class.
Darren Pulsipher: There'll be a final. It'll be an interview. It's like a job interview. It's… it's not that painful, obviously, because 3 of my previous students have come back, so I didn't scare them away too bad. But it's a half hour, for the final.
Darren Pulsipher: And we're doing a midterm, a midterm,
Darren Pulsipher: This year as well. So that will be just you and I talking about what you've learned so far this semester, talking about the projects that you're working on, and the direction you're headed. And we're gonna have a discussion to talk about, areas of improvement.
Darren Pulsipher: Where you think you could grow more, and… and that's why we're doing the midterm.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? So…
Darren Pulsipher: If you have a hard time, with, oral exams, please let me know, reach out to me, and we'll work something out. I'm not that scary.
Darren Pulsipher: I had, one student last semester who was very worried about it, but we worked through it, and… and they… they did well in the class. So, I have some techniques to help, with that, right?
Darren Pulsipher: One of the reasons why I got rid of the written exams is, frankly, it's too tempting to use GenAI to answer the questions.
Darren Pulsipher: So, there's absolutely no way you can cheat in this class.
Darren Pulsipher: So, you can try, you're not going to be able to, right? Because I've gotten rid of anything that lets you cheat.
Darren Pulsipher: So, there you go.
Darren Pulsipher: Right, and so we're not doing anything written, everything will be oral. If you think you're really good at deepfake video, I have a deepfake video detector that we developed at Intel, so you won't get away with that one either, so…
Darren Pulsipher: I got you covered. Not a problem.
Darren Pulsipher: Not a problem. I do grade all of the, assessments, but I use… I use GenAI to grade it. I have a rubric. You guys will see the rubric. I have some techniques that I use to grade your stuff. This semester, we… I am gonna have a little,
Darren Pulsipher: web client that I'll be hitting your services with.
Darren Pulsipher: to see how they perform. So I'll be running that against your stuff. All your assignments will be handed in, and I'll also need a Docker container to run against. So, we'll set that up. You'll see in the first assignment how that's all going to work.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay, so I'll be running a simple client that will test your interfaces. You'll have all the data that you need to run it against, so you should all be in good shape.
Darren Pulsipher: And I do use, generative AI to run through all your code, find problems, and… and grade it.
Darren Pulsipher: Right.
Darren Pulsipher: So, because I'm using Gen AI,
Darren Pulsipher: You get a very well, as some of you have seen in the past.
Darren Pulsipher: It can be very explicit on things that you can improve on. I expect you to learn from those things. They're very good, they're very good at pointing out things specifically because of the prompting that I put in on the front end, things I'm looking for specifically, okay?
Darren Pulsipher: Assignments are due.
Darren Pulsipher: on Sundays, which is horrible for me, by the way, but my students have… have spoken, and I have listened. They're due Sunday at midnight.
Darren Pulsipher: on, at midnight Tennessee time on the day, and you'll see in the assignments when they're due.
Darren Pulsipher: There are 5 assignments. There are 4 assignments and a final project, right?
Darren Pulsipher: The first assignment's very easy. It's setting up your environment and a baseline. It's just going to be, can you, set up a web service running in a Docker container that I can attach to, and I can do a health, and I can… I can do one or two API calls to it.
Darren Pulsipher: REST API calls. That's the first assignment.
Darren Pulsipher: That's A0. A1 is, a little more than that. We're gonna start, looking at
Darren Pulsipher: implementing at least one service that deals with data. In that… in that one, I'll be querying data, I'll be loading data, and things like that. Then we'll move into integration and persistence and resilience.
Darren Pulsipher: I'm gonna try and break your microservice. I have some really good techniques to do that.
Darren Pulsipher: Especially since I'm getting your Docker containers. Then we're gonna move on to fully reactive and async pipelining and performance analysis. This is where I'm gonna throw several hundred clients
Darren Pulsipher: And I have a whole, server farm behind me. I'm gonna see how well your stuff, can handle a bunch of clients just hammering your, Docker containers.
Darren Pulsipher: And your architecture. So, we'll do that. And then your capstone project is, hey, can we make this production ready? Can we really make it resilient? Do I have observability? Can I deploy… automatically deploy it? We'll be using, we can use Docker,
Darren Pulsipher: now I can't remember. Docker Swarm, thank you! We can use Docker Swarm for that instead of going full-blown Kubernetes. It's just a much easier platform to use. But if you guys want to use Kubernetes, that's fine too. So those are… those are kind of the details of the assignment.
Darren Pulsipher: There are 5 projects to choose from.
Darren Pulsipher: That you get to choose. If you decide to switch projects partway through, you're more than welcome to do that.
Darren Pulsipher: But I think that just adds more time to what you need to do. But the projects are a movie and media recommender, an IoT smart home sensor platform.
Darren Pulsipher: Trisha should love that, because she's already written one in the last class. She'll just need to extend it a little bit. An online store, shopping cart, a social news feed, and a food delivery and restaurant ordering system.
Darren Pulsipher: So, those are the five projects. You get to choose one of those projects you want to work… work on. I do have a bunch of synthetic data, both small, medium, and large, and I will be generating extra large for the final project, which should have a million
Darren Pulsipher: data elements in it. That's what we're going after.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay? I'm not providing you any starter code at all.
Darren Pulsipher: That's something you're gonna have to learn how to do on your own.
Darren Pulsipher: And I've given you plenty of information on how to do that, and Gen AI can generate a lot of that stuff for you, or you can pick whatever platform you wish to pick.
Darren Pulsipher: To do that, this is where research from you guys is gonna become important. You guys need to figure that out.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? This is where your architecture heads come in.
Darren Pulsipher: Right?
Darren Pulsipher: I don't need to provide code for you that, something else can generate. This is how grading is going to happen. The first four assignments are worth 10 points each.
Darren Pulsipher: Which is 40. The final project's worth 25. The final exam, the interview, will be worth 20%.
Darren Pulsipher: The weekly participation I already brought up is 10%, but you have a… you have a 4% kicker on that one if you attend all the classes.
Darren Pulsipher: And there will be a midterm as well, which is worth 5 points, right? This is a check-in with me. It's a half hour. I will, put together a calendar, invite, so that you guys, can, schedule that, starting next week.
Darren Pulsipher: You'll be able to schedule. That'll be sometime in March.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? And I am doing a little bit of traveling, but I will be calling into these Thursday meetings, no matter where in the world I am.
Darren Pulsipher: And sometimes it might be in India. In fact, I got a lot of travel. We almost had Tricia last semester in New Zealand. We were all jealous.
Darren Pulsipher: But she, she didn't…
Tricia Brown: They're having me submit a visa for Australia, but everything's still pending, so… They're making some work travel.
Darren Pulsipher: I understand work travel, because I have it too. That's why I gave a little bit of slack, but I will dial in at 3 in the morning if I need to, to be with you guys, because I think we're going to have a lot of fun this semester.
Darren Pulsipher: Submitting assignments. All the assignments must be submitted through Brightspace.
Darren Pulsipher: And all I need is a link.
Darren Pulsipher: to your, GitHub repo. That's all I need.
Darren Pulsipher: I do… it does need to be… you do need to put it in in time in Brightspace.
Darren Pulsipher: the assignments are all in there already. And I do check the timestamp on the repo, so don't just slide it in and
Darren Pulsipher: at midnight, and then keep working on it past it, because I will go to your timestamp, because I can do that in GitHub.
Darren Pulsipher: And whatever you checked in and committed before midnight is what I'm gonna take.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: I do tell people, check in whenever you got.
Darren Pulsipher: Even if it fails, you're still gonna get points.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? Another thing that I want to make sure that you guys do is…
Darren Pulsipher: If you're having a conversation with a GenAI to help you make design decisions.
Darren Pulsipher: Capture those, put those into your repo. Say, here's my conversation, here's how I made design decisions. I want to read that. That, to me, is more important than the code that gets generated.
Darren Pulsipher: Philip, go ahead.
Philip Eykamp: I was just gonna say, to the point of getting points for something that doesn't work.
Philip Eykamp: I believe last term I got at least 90% on something that, like, didn't even fully run, so, and you probably remember this, but I was just gonna say, for everyone else in the room, lest anyone not take that seriously. My thing just, like, didn't work because I did not provision resources properly, or there was some… something that was basically a total showstopper, and, I mean, yeah, so, I mean, that is, like, more true than you might think.
Darren Pulsipher: Yeah, and… because I'm more concerned about, are you guys learning the architectural…
Darren Pulsipher: concepts and the design principles, more so than did your code compile… you guys don't even compile code anymore, what am I talking about? Did your code work completely correctly? I'm more concerned, is the design pattern correct?
Darren Pulsipher: we can work through the code issues later, right? And eventually, you will have to, right?
Darren Pulsipher: Because we do need… we do need the final project to actually run.
Darren Pulsipher: Right?
Darren Pulsipher: Okay?
Darren Pulsipher: Any questions? I do not take late assignments. There's no dog, I ate my homework, there's nothing like that. I just don't… I just don't have time to do late assignment, regrading.
Darren Pulsipher: Especially since things are handed in on a Sunday night. I used to have them handed in on a Friday, so I had all day Saturday to grade.
Darren Pulsipher: But not anymore. It's because I love my students so much.
Darren Pulsipher: So… Typically, I have the grading done within 3 or 4 days.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay, key here, stay on top of the modules and the assignments, don't get too far behind. There's a lot of content we're gonna go through. A lot.
Darren Pulsipher: Right? So… Also remember that the assignments build on top of each other.
Darren Pulsipher: Join any discussions in the Brightspace group. We didn't do a great job on this last semester, because I think our discussions on Thursdays kind of displaced a lot of that, but that is a good place to share information, is in Brightspace as well. If you do have any questions, just send me an email.
Darren Pulsipher: I tend to check the Vanderbilt email every day, so at least once a day, so…
Darren Pulsipher: I'll normally get back to you. You can always reach out to me as well. I'll give some other information where you guys can reach out to me.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay, any questions from you guys?
Darren Pulsipher: No questions.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): The, sorry, I was looking at the Brightspace, the Brightspace site.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): And… I'm not seeing any of the modules, sorry if I missed that.
Darren Pulsipher: They're not in there yet, and you won't see a lot in the Brightspace. Most of the modules, you're gonna see in the GitHub repo.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Got it.
Darren Pulsipher: And so what I will put on the weekly modules is I'll put
Darren Pulsipher: maybe I should just… I'll go through and I'll put a link on those weekly modules to the… to the modules in the GitHub repo. That'll be the easiest way to do it. And the reason I do the GitHub repo is because I can add that as a LLM rag
Darren Pulsipher: In your development environments.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Sorry, that's amazing.
Darren Pulsipher: I can't really do much with them, right?
Darren Pulsipher: So, I hope that helps, Tom.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): No, that, that, that, that absolutely does. And…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): And then for the GitHub repo, Where are we finding… That…
Darren Pulsipher: I'm gonna send… I'm gonna send out an email with…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Got it.
Darren Pulsipher: Yep, I'll send out an email to the whole team with the link.
Darren Pulsipher: The, this, this is week zero, by the way. Week one, which starts next, this week, the lectures are up there. Only one video is done, so far. The other videos will be coming,
Darren Pulsipher: Oh, on Saturday, more than likely.
Darren Pulsipher: The videos are only about 15-20 minutes tops. Most of, most of the information is in the lecture notes and also in the PowerPoint presentation, which is in a Markdown language format.
Darren Pulsipher: So they're easy to read, they're easy for an LLM to take advantage of as well.
Darren Pulsipher: So, good questions. Any other questions?
Darren Pulsipher: All right. Tom, I know you had to go grab your wife.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Yes.
Darren Pulsipher: get through that quickly. Thank you.
Darren Pulsipher: So, we do have a little bit more time, and I do want
Darren Pulsipher: You guys to share a little bit.
Darren Pulsipher: Some of you guys know each other already, but some of you don't, so just give me a couple minutes on who you are, and if you're working right now, if you're a full-time student, what you'd like to be called?
Darren Pulsipher: We've had… I've… we've had people who put their name down, and they don't want to be called that. So, let's start with Eric. I already know Eric from my last class, so… Eric, go ahead and introduce yourself for everyone.
Eric Farber-Eger: Hi everyone, I'm Eric Farber-Eger. I work as a Principal Application Developer for Vanderbilt University Medical Center.
Eric Farber-Eger: mostly in EHR-derived research, so I'm in data all the time. Haven't worked too much with microservices, so I'm excited to learn a little bit more about this. Yeah, about me, I've got, 2 kids, 4 and 2. I've got 3 cats, I live in Nashville, Tennessee.
Eric Farber-Eger: And I've been doing programming for about 15 years now, so,
Eric Farber-Eger: is excited to get back to school. This will be my last semester, hopefully, fingers crossed, if I can pass this one, but last semester.
Darren Pulsipher: Oh, okay, you gotta pass this class?
Eric Farber-Eger: Yeah, yeah. It's in your hands.
Darren Pulsipher: in my hands.
Eric Farber-Eger: Or mine, I guess I should say.
Darren Pulsipher: Hey, it's in yours.
Eric Farber-Eger: Yes.
Darren Pulsipher: We had two students, last semester that, graduated, so, so, it is doable.
Darren Pulsipher: It is doable.
Eric Farber-Eger: Yeah, yeah.
Darren Pulsipher: Thanks, Eric. Alright, is it Martina?
Martina Nikic: Yeah, it's Martina.
Darren Pulsipher: Alright, Martina?
Martina Nikic: Nikitch, most people don't get my last name right, but, hi everyone. I was out for about a year, out of school. I became a full-time mom. I am a.
Darren Pulsipher: Congratulations.
Martina Nikic: Thank you. I'm a full-time software engineer. I work for a company called Civic Eye, so we make software basically for,
Martina Nikic: Police officers, law enforcement, prosecutors, all over the country.
Martina Nikic: A little bit about me, I'm originally from Eastern Europe, I'm fluent in…
Martina Nikic: three human languages, and I live in Chattanooga, Tennessee, so…
Darren Pulsipher: Wait, 3 human… which human languages?
Martina Nikic: So I'm fluent in German, and I'm fluent in Serbo-Croatian.
Martina Nikic: And English. And English, that's awesome. That is awesome. So, I'm guessing you're from that area, from Serbia?
Martina Nikic: Oh, yeah. I'm a Bosnian Croat, yeah.
Darren Pulsipher: Oh, that is awesome. That is awesome.
Martina Nikic: So I like languages.
Darren Pulsipher: Well, great. Alright, Tom, you're up next, if you're still there.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): I am, I just tried to get off mute, can you guys hear me?
Darren Pulsipher: Yep, yeah, we can.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Yeah, and I apologize, so this will be from the car, but, so Tom Gaffney, I guess I, I…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): I've worked for the last…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Oh, gosh. Getting close to 20 years now, still not quite, but, in financial services. So, started, well, started my career in private equity, real estate, private equity, but that was in 2007, and…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): you guys may remember, it wasn't the best time to be in real estate. After that, kind of, yeah, shortly moved into, a commodities trading role, and sort of kept that over the last, few years, kind of bouncing around to a couple of different firms. Spent the last 10 years at kind of a mid-sized financial services firm.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): But as part of that, I guess.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): maybe about 15 years ago, I'm starting to get pretty interested into, you know, the different kind of financial modeling and things that we could build, you know, starting, like, you know, I feel like a lot of people do. Things like VBA is kind of a gateway programming drug, moving into kind of Python, R…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): You know, over the years, kind of took a series of courses through Stanford to kind of
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): kind of bulk up some of my computer science, University of Washington's kind of same thing. And then, yeah, sort of took the opportunity here at Vanderbilt to, to really sort of formalize all that, education into, the master's program, so…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Working on a few projects at work right now that hopefully that work… that this has already been really kind of, impactful in. We're…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): We're building kind of an operational platform to manage our physical commodity trading. It's called the CTRM Commodity Trading and Risk Management System. Definitely some of the ad hoc modeling, so…
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): Yeah, I guess it's me in a nutshell. Born and raised in Alaska, kind of live in Seattle today, live kind of all around the country, went to school in Philadelphia, spent some time in DC, Houston, San Francisco.
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): And then one son who's,
Thomas Gaffney’s iPhone (2): About 12 days old, so, freshly minted.
Darren Pulsipher: That's awesome. Congratulations on that.
Darren Pulsipher: Alright, Trisha. Trisha, you're up next.
Tricia Brown: Hello, I'm Trisha Brown. I'm currently a software engineer for Boeing on, the vehicle training systems. I've been working there for about 4 years, and currently living in St. Louis, Missouri, but I was born and raised in Nashville, Tennessee, and Vanderbilt was big.
Tricia Brown: part of the family for me. I have a lot of family and friends that are alums, so I figured if Boeing's paying for me to get the degree and the price tag's not on me, I'm gonna do it, so…
Darren Pulsipher: That's awesome, Tricia.
Darren Pulsipher: Welcome back. Alright, Phillip, your last… But not least.
Philip Eykamp: Well, I'm Philip Eichamp, resident of Nashville, Tennessee. In my final course, so along with Eric, I will be, hopefully graduating at the end of this term, and and yeah, I, I do basically, like, ID consulting software.
Philip Eykamp: design, basically whatever my, firm, NTT data has me doing on client work. Also, in the very early stages of a potential startup, but, you know,
Philip Eykamp: kind of like throwing spaghetti at the wall and hoping it sticks, but we'll see. And yeah,
Philip Eykamp: I guess,
Philip Eykamp: I don't know how much else to say… what else is useful to say other than that,
Philip Eykamp: Yeah, I was probably, quite, relatively vivacious last term, so we'll see if I, have a repeat performance.
Darren Pulsipher: I'm hoping so, Philip. You always, you always did a great job at questioning, which is, to me, the best way to learn, is that we talk together, we learn together through mutual experiences that… that we have.
Darren Pulsipher: So, I appreciate that, Philip.
Darren Pulsipher: All right, guys, you have any questions for me at all?
Darren Pulsipher: Besides why my phone is ringing off the hook, Phillip knows why my phone's ringing off the hook. It is my birthday today.
Darren Pulsipher: So, and I do have 10 kids, and they're all calling me, so…
Darren Pulsipher: I'm gonna be on the phone for the next, couple hours, after this class, so…
Darren Pulsipher: But… Happy birthday!
Philip Eykamp: day.
Darren Pulsipher: Well, thank you very much. So, I will… I will post up on, Brightspace, the GitHub, GitHub repo, and also, I'll send an email out to… out to everyone.
Darren Pulsipher: And we'll also post the transcript of this into the repo. You will see, updates to the repo every week, as I am going through and recording the lectures for, for that week.
Darren Pulsipher: I tried to say I was gonna do it over the Christmas break, but there was too much chaos going on over here, at my house when, several of the kids came home.
Darren Pulsipher: Which… the house kind of shudders when they all start rolling home with their… with their kids, so…
Darren Pulsipher: I understand, work-life balance, that it is out of balance, especially when you're in school. I got my PhD while I was working full-time, and had,
Darren Pulsipher: during COVID, when 7 of my 10 kids came back home during COVID.
Darren Pulsipher: And we'd already gotten rid of most of them, so it was… it was a crazy time, so…
Darren Pulsipher: So, I understand a working professional… working professional students,
Darren Pulsipher: And hopefully this course, will give you enough time to use some things in your own jobs, as well as, get some value out of it for your careers long-term.
Darren Pulsipher: All right, guys, that's all I got, for today. Next week, you'll only get 15 minutes out of me, and the rest is you guys. So, we're gonna have a lot of fun next, next week.
Darren Pulsipher: So, take a look at those lectures. Like I said, the text is already up there, an email will go out, and the rest of the videos will be up by Saturday.
Darren Pulsipher: Okay.
Darren Pulsipher: Alright guys, thank you so much!
Darren Pulsipher: And I look forward to, a great, A great semester.
Tricia Brown: Thank you.
Eric Farber-Eger: Thank you, and happy birthday.
Martina Nikic: Bye.
Philip Eykamp: Thanks, bye.